[[release-notes-8.0.2]]
== Release notes v8.0.2

[discrete]
=== Bug fixes

- Add missing accessor properties for dictionary responses (issue: 
https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-net/issues/7048[#7048])
- Fix to ensure dynamic HTTP methods are used when available (issue: 
https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-net/issues/7057[#7057])
- Fix resolvable dictionary properties (issue: 
https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-net/issues/7075[#7075])

[discrete]
=== Breaking changes

Some low-impact changes were made to existing types to fix the resolvable 
dictionary properties. We determined it worthwhile to retype the properties to 
prefer the interfaces over concrete types.

[discrete]
==== Changes to dictionary properties on generated types

As part of fixing the resolvable dictionary properties some low-impact changes 
were made to the generated types. We determined it worthwhile to retype the 
properties to prefer the interfaces over concrete types.

Types that are immutable and only apply to server responses now use 
`IReadOnlyDictionary` for relevant properties. For mutable types, we prefer 
`IDictionary`.

`HealthResponse.Indices` has changed from a bespoke `ReadOnlyIndexNameDictionary` 
property to prefer `IReadOnlyDictionary` to improve ease of use and familiarity.

[discrete]
==== Internalise ReadOnlyIndexNameDictionary

After changes for resolvable dictionaries, the `ReadOnlyIndexNameDictionary` type 
was made internal and is no longer part of the public API. Properties that 
previously used this type are now typed as `IReadOnlyDictionary`. This brings 
advantages in being more familiar for developers.

[discrete]
==== Remove IndexName.GetString(ITransportConfiguration settings) method

This method is used internally by the client and should not be exposed to 
consuming applications. Instead, we prefer explicit interface implementation for 
`IUrlParameter.GetString`.

[discrete]
==== Remove Metric.GetString(ITransportConfiguration settings) method

This method is used internally by the client and should not be exposed to 
consuming applications. Instead, we prefer explicit interface implementation for 
`IUrlParameter.GetString`.

[discrete]
==== Remove TimeStamp.GetString(ITransportConfiguration settings) method

This method is used internally by the client and should not be exposed to 
consuming applications. Instead, we prefer explicit interface implementation for 
`IUrlParameter.GetString`.

[discrete]
==== Remove IndexUuid.GetString(ITransportConfiguration settings) method

This method is used internally by the client and should not be exposed to 
consuming applications. Instead, we prefer explicit interface implementation for 
`IUrlParameter.GetString`.

[discrete]
==== Remove TaskId.GetString(ITransportConfiguration settings) method

This method is used internally by the client and should not be exposed to 
consuming applications. Instead, we prefer explicit interface implementation for 
`IUrlParameter.GetString`.

[discrete]
==== The Metric type is now sealed

This type has been sealed to align with other types for consistency. We donâ€™t 
expect consumers to derive from this type.